# Services

## Raspberry Pie (and the related products)
<note></note> This is mainly a copy of Johannes Gehrs [post][jg-link] on medium.

###Installation
Install systemd by installing the packages <mark>systemd</mark> and <red-h>systemd-sysv</red-h>:
~~~sh
apt-get install systemd systemd-sysv
~~~

###Checking the Status of Services
Use <ic>systemctl</ic> command without parameters for listing all the running services.
To look at one specific service (for example transmission-daemon) issue 
<ic>systemctl status <red>transmission-daemon</red></ic>.

###Stopping, Starting, Restarting and Reloading Services
For Stopping a service issue <ic>sudo systemctl <red>stop</red> transmission-daemon</ic>.
For Starting it issue <ic>sudo systemctl <red>start</red> transmission-daemon</ic>. To
Restart it issue <ic>sudo systemctl <red>restart</red> transmission-daemon</ic>.
systemd also has a generic way to issue the soft reload that transmission-daemon and 
many other services support: <ic>sudo systemctl <red>reload</red> transmission-daemon</ic>.

###Understanding the Journal
The systemctl commands will not write it to standard output. systemd writes
the output of init scripts and all status messages generated by systemd 
to something called _journal_. You can get the last relevant lines of 
output from the status command, by issuing: 
<ic>systemctl status transmission-daemon</ic> but the status will not show
the log entries unless you run it with root privileges.

So for getting the last log-messages use <ic><red>sudo</red> systemctl status transmission-daemon</ic>
instead. To see the full log issue <ic>sudo journalctl -u transmission-daemon</ic>
 
###Permanently Enabling or Disabling Services

To disable a service issue: <ic>sudo systemctl disable transmission-daemon</ic>. 
Respectively use: <ic>sudo systemctl enable transmission-daemon</ic> to
enable a service.

<note></note> You can still manually start or stop services even if they are 
enabled or disabled. It just means that they won’t start or stop at boot.

If you actually want to make it impossible that the service is started you can mask it:
~~~bash
systemctl mask transmission-daemon
~~~
Respectively, to unmask you should issue:
~~~bash
systemctl unmask transmission-daemon
~~~
<note></note> Issuing disable, enable; mask or unmask will not start or 
stop the service. You need to do this separately.

###Understanding Service Files
Service files are located in <ic>/lib/systemd/system</ic> 


## Sample mount service using <ic>serviced</ic>
Let's assume that we want to write a service which automatically will 
mount a <ic>sshfs</ic> file system after system is booted and network is 
up. We can't just simply add it to <ic>fstab</ic> because at that time
network might not be available. Let's assume that we want to mount the
filesystem into this folder: <ic>/media/pi/WD</ic>.

### Creating the service file
Inorder to proceed, you need to create a file **exactly** with this name
and in this path: <ic>/etc/systemd/system/media-pi-WD.mount</ic>. The file
should look like as follows:
~~~shell
[Unit]
Description=WD Sshfs mount
Requires=network-online.target
After=netctl@enp0s25.service

[Mount]
What=root@192.168.0.50:/DataVolume/shares/WD
Where=/media/pi/WD
Type=fuse.sshfs
Options=_netdev,user,idmap=user,default_permissions,uid=vagrant,gid=pi,allow_other,transform_symlinks

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
~~~
### Enabling the service
Next, we need to enable the service, by issuing:
~~~shell
sudo systemctl enable media-pi-WD.mount
~~~
### Query the status of the service
To see how the server is doing you can start it manually, by issuing:
~~~shell
sudo systemctl start media-pi-WD.mount
~~~
And then query its status by entering:
~~~shell
sudo systemctl status media-pi-WD.mount
~~~

[jg-link]: https://medium.com/@johannes_gehrs/getting-started-with-systemd-on-debian-jessie-e024758ca63d#.h0c3zxsxl